Update checkpoints and DVCLive with DVC (#3756)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/experiment-management/checkpoints.md

Now we need to add a training stage to `dvc.yaml` including `checkpoint: true`
in its <abbr>output</abbr>. This tells DVC which <abbr>cached</abbr> output(s)
to use to resume the experiment later (a circular dependency). We'll do this
with `dvc exp init`.

```dvc
$ dvc exp init \
--data 'data/MNIST' \
--code 'train.py' \
--live 'dvclive' \
--model 'model.pt' \
--type 'checkpoint' \
python train.py
```

The `--live` option configures where the [DVCLive](/doc/dvclive) logs (produced
by the training process) will go. `--type 'checkpoint'` is used to enable DVC
checkpoints. The checkpoint file, specified with `--model 'model.pt'`, is an
output from one checkpoint that becomes a dependency for the next checkpoint.
The other options (`--data` and `--code`) set up our dependencies for running

> the training code, whose parameters we want to track (by default all inside
> `params.yaml`).

Reviewer: One last thing...
```suggestion
the training code, whose parameters we want to track (by default everything
inside `params.yaml`).
```

Now we need to add a training stage to `dvc.yaml` including `checkpoint: true`
in its <abbr>output</abbr>. This tells DVC which <abbr>cached</abbr> output(s)
to use to resume the experiment later (a circular dependency). We'll do this
with `dvc exp init`.

```dvc
$ dvc exp init \
--data 'data/MNIST' \
--code 'train.py' \
--live 'dvclive' \
--model 'model.pt' \
--type 'checkpoint' \
python train.py
```

The `--live` option configures where the [DVCLive](/doc/dvclive) logs (produced
by the training process) will go. `--type 'checkpoint'` is used to enable DVC
checkpoints. The checkpoint file, specified with `--model 'model.pt'`, is an output

> from one checkpoint that becomes a dependency for the next checkpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from one checkpoint that becomes a dependency for the next checkpoint. The other
options (`--data` and `--code`) set up our dependencies for running the training
code, whose parameters we want to track (by default all inside `params.yaml`).
```

> The other options (`--data` and `--code`) set up our dependencies for running the
> training code, whose parameters we want to track (by default all inside
> _params.yaml_).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Now we need to add a training stage to `dvc.yaml` including `checkpoint: true`
in its <abbr>output</abbr>. This tells DVC which <abbr>cached</abbr> output(s)
to use to resume the experiment later (a circular dependency). We'll do this

> with `dvc exp init`.

Reviewer: Can this still be done with `dvc stage add`? Should we still mention it separately if so?

Author: In this specific case, it cannot be done with `stage add`.
In https://github.com/iterative/dvc/pull/8000 I have introduced some hidden options used by `exp init --type checkpoint` to make `metrics` and `plots` have `persist: true`.

> with `dvc exp init`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with `dvc exp init --live`.
```

```dvc

> $ dvc exp init \
> --data 'data/MNIST' \
> --code 'train.py' \
> --live 'dvclive' \

Reviewer: Maybe? For emphasis
```suggestion
$ dvc exp init --live 'dvclive' \
--data 'data/MNIST' \
--code 'train.py' \
```

--model 'model.pt' \
--type 'checkpoint' \
python train.py
```

> We use the `--model` and `--type` flags to define the checkpoint file or

Reviewer 2: WDYT about introducing `--type checkpoint` first as the way to enable checkpoints, and then explain in the rest of the paragraph how `--model` defines the checkpoint file and what that means?

> We use the `--model` and `--type` flags to define the checkpoint file or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the `--model` and `--type` options to define the checkpoint file or
```

> The `--type 'checkpoint'` option is used to enable DVC checkpoints. The
> checkpoint file, specified by the `--model 'model.pt'` option, is an output from
> one checkpoint that becomes a dependency for the next checkpoint, such as the
> model weights file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--live` option configures where the [DVCLive](/doc/dvclive) logs (produced
by the training process) will go. `--type 'checkpoint'` is used to enable DVC
checkpoints. The checkpoint file, specified with `--model 'model.pt'`, is an output
from one checkpoint that becomes a dependency for the next checkpoint.
```

> The rest of the `dvc exp init` flags set up our dependencies for running the
> training code, which parameters we want to track (by default all inside

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rest of the `dvc exp init` options set up our dependencies for running the
training code, whose parameters we want to track (by default all inside
```

_params.yaml_), and configures [DVCLive](/doc/dvclive) to be

> [used alongside DVC](/doc/dvclive/dvclive-with-dvc).

Reviewer 2: Since users here might be unfamiliar with DVCLive, it might be more helpful to keep it closer to the original text, like "configures where the DVCLive logs produced by the training process will go."

Author: Not a strong opinion but I think if users are unfamiliar with DVCLive the phrase won't change much and a link to a more detailed doc is better.

Perhaps the better is to add the phrase + link to the doc

Reviewer 2: Yeah, definitely agree that the links are good. Sorry that wasn't clear.

> The rest of the `dvc exp init` options set up our dependencies for running the
> training code, whose parameters we want to track (by default all inside
> _params.yaml_), and configures where the [DVCLive](/doc/dvclive) logs produced
> by the training process will go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other options (`--data` and `--code`) set up our dependencies for running the
training code, whose parameters we want to track (by default all inside
_params.yaml_).
```

This sentence can probably be part of the previous paragraph now though...

      - data/MNIST
      - train.py
    params:
      - params.yaml:
    outs:
      - model.pt:
          checkpoint: true
    metrics:
      - dvclive.json:
          cache: false
          persist: true
    plots:
      - dvclive/scalars:
          cache: false
          persist: true
```

<admon type="warn">

> Note that enabling checkpoints in a `dvc.yaml` file makes it incompatible with

Reviewer 3: btw, should it be like "persisting outputs ..." not "enabling checkpoints"

> Note that enabling checkpoints in a `dvc.yaml` file makes it incompatible with

Reviewer: If so let's use this wording please: "making outputs persistent". Thanks

> Note that enabling checkpoints in a `dvc.yaml` file makes it incompatible with

Author: "making outputs persistent" and "enabling checkpoints" are 2 separate actions. 

"enabling checkpoints" is the one incompatible with `dvc repro` and does raise an exception:

```
ERROR: failed to reproduce 'train': Checkpoint stages are not supported in 'dvc repro'. Checkpoint stages must be reproduced with 'dvc exp run'. 
```
